README.md, before:

# Rahul Moharana - Minimal Portfolio

A minimalist, high-performance portfolio based on the design principles of prashantsani.com. Built with React (Vite), Tailwind CSS, and Framer Motion.

## Features

- **Minimal Design**: Focused on typography and whitespace.
- **Micro-Animations**: Staggered reveals, hover effects, and smooth scrolling.
- **3D Elements**: Subtle, lazy-loaded 3D hero background using `react-three-fiber`.
- **Accessibility**: Support for `prefers-reduced-motion` and keyboard navigation.
- **Custom Cursor**: A subtle follower cursor (disabled on touch devices).

## Setup & Running

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install framer-motion lucide-react clsx @react-three/fiber @react-three/drei three
   ```

2. **Run Development Server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

3. **Build for Production**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

## Customization

### Content
Edit `data.ts` to update your personal information. Placeholders like `{{NAME}}` are currently filled with data extracted from the provided PDF, but you can modify the `CONTENT` object directly.

### Animations
Animation variants are centralized in `utils/animations.ts`.
- `TRANSITION`: Controls global timing/easing.
- `staggerContainer`: Controls how list items appear.

### Performance
- Heavy assets (like the 3D sphere) are lazy-loaded using `React.lazy` and `Suspense`.
- The marquee uses CSS animations for the best thread performance.
- The scroll listener is handled via Framer Motion's `useScroll` which is optimized internally.

### GSAP Option
If you prefer GSAP for more complex timeline-based scrolling (like pinning sections):
1. Uninstall Framer Motion.
2. Install `gsap`.
3. Use `useLayoutEffect` to initialize `ScrollTrigger`.
4. Replace `variants` props with GSAP `.from()` or `.to()` calls.

## Deployment
This project is a static site (SPA). You can deploy it to Vercel, Netlify, or GitHub Pages easily.

Commit message:

feat: Update dependencies and Vite config
Upgrades React, Framer Motion, Three.js, and related libraries.
Adjusts Vite configuration for cleaner build output and updated tsconfig.
Removes unused configuration options and simplifies import maps.
Introduces `lucide-react` and `clsx` for enhanced icon and class utility.

README.md, after:

# Rahul Moharana - Minimal Portfolio

A minimalist, high-performance portfolio based on the design principles of prashantsani.com. Built with React (Vite), Pure CSS, and Framer Motion.

## 🚀 How to Host

### Option 1: Vercel or Netlify (Recommended)
This is the easiest method.
1. Push this code to a **GitHub repository**.
2. Log in to [Vercel](https://vercel.com) or [Netlify](https://netlify.com).
3. Click **"Add New Project"** and select your repository.
4. The build settings will be detected automatically (`npm run build`).
5. Click **Deploy**.

### Option 2: GitHub Pages
1. Push this code to a GitHub repository.
2. Go to `Settings` > `Pages`.
3. Under "Build and deployment", select **GitHub Actions**.
4. Configure the static web apps workflow to run `npm install` and `npm run build`.

## 🛠 Setup & Development

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

2. **Run Development Server**:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

3. **Build for Production**:
   ```bash
   npm run build
   ```

## Customization

- **Content**: Edit `data.ts` to update your personal information.
- **Styles**: Edit `index.css` for global styles.
- **Animations**: Check `utils/animations.ts`.

## Tech Stack
- React 18
- Vite
- Pure CSS (No Tailwind)
- Framer Motion
- React Three Fiber
